So if conditional
probabilities are working
with a sliding window
of two or more words,
what's happens at the beginning
or end of a sentence.
Let's take a closer look
at what's happens at
the very beginning and the
very end of a sentence.
I'll show you how to modify
the sentence using
two new symbols,
which denotes the start
and end of a sentence.
You will see why these new
symbols are important,
then you will add them
to the beginning and end
of your sentences for bigram,
and general, and Graham cases.
Now I'll explain how to resolve
the first term in the
bigram approximation.
Let's revisit the
previous sentence.
The teacher drinks tea,
or the first word the.
You don't have the context
of the previous word,
so you can't calculate
a bigram probability,
which you'll need to
make your predictions.
So what you'll do is
add a special term,
so that each sentence
of your corpus
becomes a bigram that you can
calculate the probabilities for.
An example of a start
token is this S,
which you can now
use to calculate
the bigram probability of the
first word, the like this.
A similar principle
applies to N-grams.
For example, with trigrams,
the first two words don't
have enough context,
so you don't need to use the
unigram of the first word,
and bigram of the
first two words.
The missing contexts
can be fixed by
adding two starts of
sentence symbols,
bracket S, bracket S to the
beginning of the sentence.
So now the sentence probability
becomes a product of
trigram probabilities.
To generalize this for N-grams,
add N-1 start tokens,
brackets S at the beginning
of each sentence.
So now you can deal with
the unigrams in the
beginning of sentences,
what about the end
of the sentences?
Recall that the conditional
probability of word y given
word x was estimated as
the count of all bigrams.
X comma y divided by
the counts of all
bigrams starting with x.
You simplify the denominator
as the counts of all unigrams x.
There is one case where the
simplification does not
work when word X is the
last word of the sentence.
For example, if you look at
the word drinks in this corpus,
the sum of all bigrams starting
with drinks is only equal to one,
because the only bigram
that starts with
the word drinks is
drinks chocolate.
On the other hand, the
word drinks appears
twice in the corpus and
the other occurrence
is a unigram.
To continue using your
simplified formula
for the conditional probability,
you need to add an end
of sentence token.
There's another issue with
your engram probabilities.
Let's say you have a
very small corpus with
only three sentences
consisting of
two unique words, yes and no.
The corpus consists of
three sentences: yes no,
yes yes, and no no.
These are all possible
sentences of length two.
These can be generated
from the words yes and no,
and starting with the starts
of sentence symbol brackets
S. So to calculate
the bigram probability
of the sentence yes yes,
take the probability of yes with
the added starts of
sentence symbol,
multiplied by the
probability of yes being
the second word where the
previous word was also yes.
The probability of yes
with the added start of
sentence symbol is the count
of bigrams with yes at
the start of the sentence
divided by the count of
all bigrams starting with the
start of sentence symbol.
You can only use the sum of
bigram counts in the denominator.
Next, let's handle the
remaining unigrams.
Multiply the first term by
the fraction of the
counts of bigram,
yes yes, over the
counts of all bigram,
starting with the word yes.
You get two over
three times one half,
which is equal to one over three.
So there you have
the probability of
the sentence yes yes
estimated from your corpus.
So you have calculated
the probability of
the sentence yes,
yes and goes in one-third.
Now, you will calculate
the probability of
the sentence yes no,
and gets one-third again.
Next, you get the probability of
the sentence no no,
and again, one-third.
Finally, the probability
of the sentence no yes,
and this is equal to
zero because there is
no bigram no yes in the corpus.
Now here comes a surprise,
if you add the probabilities
of all four sentences,
the sum equals to one exactly
what you were aiming for.
That's great work. So
let's take a look at
all possible three
words sentences
generated from words yes and no.
Begin by calculating
the probability
of the sentence, yes,
yes, yes, then yes,
yes, no, and so on.
Until you've calculated
the probabilities of
all eight possible
sentences of length three.
Finally, when you add up
the probabilities of all the
possible sentences
of length three,
you, again, get the sum of one.
However, what you really
want is the sum of
the probabilities
for all sentences
of the length to be equal to one,
so that you can, for example,
compare the probabilities of
two sentences of
different lengths.
In other words, you want
the probabilities of all
two-words sentences,
what's the probabilities of
all three-words sentences?
What's the probabilities of
all other sentences
of arbitrary length?
You want this to be equal to one.
There is a surprisingly
simple fix for this.
You can pre-process your
training corpus to add
a special symbol which
represents the end
of the sentence,
which you will
denote with brackets
backslash S after each sentence.
For example, when using a
bigram model for the sentence,
the teacher drinks tea,
append the simple, backslash
S after the word tea.
Now the sentence
probability calculation
contains a new term,
the term represents
the probability that
the sentence will end
after the word tea.
This also fixes the issue with
probability of the sentences of
certain length equal to one.
Let's see if this also results
your problem with the
bigram probability formula.
Now there are two
bigrams starting with
the word drinks and these
are drinks, chocolates,
and drinks backslash S
and accounts of unigrams,
drinks remains the same.
That's great, you can keep using
the simplified formula for
the bigram probability
calculation.
How would you apply this
fixed for N-grams in general?
It turns out that
even for N-grams,
just adding one symbol per
sentence in the corpus is enough.
For example, when
calculating trigram models,
the original sentence will be
pre-processed to contain
two start tokens,
any single end token.
Let's have a look
at an example of
bigram probabilities generated on
a slightly larger corpus.
Here's the corpus and here are
the conditional probabilities
of some of the bigrams.
Now try to calculate
the probability of
Lyn with the start
of sentence symbol.
There are three sentences total,
so the start symbol appears
three times in the corpus.
That gives you the denominator,
the bigram brackets S Lyn
appears twice in the corpus,
so that gives you the
numerator of two.
So the probability
of the start token
followed by Lyn is
two over three.
Now calculate the probability of
the sentence, Lyn
drinks chocolate.
Start with a probability
of bigram brackets S Lyn,
which is two over
three, then Lyn drinks,
which is one-half,
then drinks chocolate,
which is also
one-half, and finally,
chocolate backslash S,
which is two over two.
Note that the result is
equal to one over six,
which is lower than the value of
one over three you
might expect when
calculating the
probability of one
of the three sentences
in the training corpus.
This also applies to
the other two sentences
in the corpus,
this remaining probability
can be distributed to
other sentences
possibly generated
from the bigrams in this corpus.
That's how the model
generalizes. I'll see you later.